If you were a life form on a pristine
planet, what is the first question you
would ask exploratory humans? So, first
let me say go to an old episode of the
Twilight Zone called The Invaders. In
that episode, Agnes Morhead is this lone
ranch woman on a little house in the
prairie and you just have to watch that.
It's called The Invaders. Point is, if
I'm the other life form and I see
humans, my first question would be, have
you come to colonize this
planet? Cuz if that's your goal, that's
not happening. Okay?
[Music]
This is Star Talk. Neil deGrasse Tyson
here, your personal astrophysicist.
We're going to do cosmic queries today
except today I have
Paul Mccurio. Paul, what's up my friend?
Welcome back to Star Talk. Great to see
you. What'd you do with Chuck? What did
you do? What' you do? Uh, you know, he's
in a bag somewhere. He's he's Last time
Chuck He was breathing. He was still
still breathing. So, how you been, man?
I'm good. I'm good. I miss you. I miss
you. Still doing the the late show.
Doing the late show with Stephen Coar.
Just did another appearance on that.
I've been touring with my Broadway show,
Permission to Speak, directed by Frank
Oz. Frank Oz. He's the the voice of
Yoda. He's Yoda. He's a mench, as they
say. He's a great He's just a brilliant
artist. We love him. We love him. Yeah.
And he's been on our show. You can find
him in our archives. Oh, he's he's
amazing. And he's just And you'll see
all how the breadth and depth of all
that he is. Oh, the Muppet creator with
Jim Henson of the Mupp. He created Miss
Piggy and Fuzzy Bear. Directed everybody
from Marlon Brando to Robert Dairo to
me. I don't know what that's about. He's
really a step down. I think he's living
in his car by the river. We love. So,
this is a grab bag. There's a grab bag.
We love these. And I haven't seen them
before. If I don't know the answer, I'll
just say I don't know. Yeah. Oh, you
know, you always answers. No. Okay, here
we go. Eric
Krajidoti, Dr. Tyson, and Duke Mccuria.
Wow. I've never been called a Duke
before. Oh, cuz Oh, cuz Chuck is called
Lord. Oh, Lord. Nice. Oh, I didn't Oh,
okay. Okay. Well, everybody's got a
title. I'm a Duke now. There we go. I
hope that Matt is at home with my wife.
But are you Duke of Earl?
What are you Duke of Earl? All right, go
lower. Duke. Duke. Yo, you can do that.
I can do
We're going to just do this for 30
minutes. Duke of
Then you got to come in high. Give me
some falsetto.
We'll find out what you're dook of.
We'll come up with something. All right.
Go. Greetings from Mangahila,
Pennsylvania. Regarding the idea of time
travel in star position, hypothetically,
if I were to create a time machine,
attempt to go back to Mangahila 2,000
years ago, would I not end up in empty
space because the entire solar system
would not have arrived in that location
had I departed that I would have
departed from? Every time machine is
also a space machine. They're space-time
machine. They don't say it, but they
have to be. Why is that relevant? Why
does that matter? They have to be. Now,
they got around that in Back to the
Future because when Marty is trying to
escape from the Libyan terrorists, and
he jumps in the Delorean and he's
quickly typing the date, he types 1955,
but it's the same day of the year as he
leaves. So, he goes back to
1955. Earth is in the same part of its
orbit on that date around the sun
because of the date the date the date
was the same. So so they skirted but
that can't be true because hang on. So
that they dodged that bullet a little
bit. Okay. Had it been 6 months earlier
or later he just be plopped in the
vacuum of space and he'd be dead. Okay.
So the the reason why they dodged that
bullet is because the entire solar
system is also orbiting the center of
the galaxy. So it happened to pick the
exact date. That was the key there.
Well, only for the moving coordinate
system that is the solar system. Okay.
But because the whole solar system is
moving, he goes back 30 years. He's
leaving our solar system
today. And if he only moved in
time, he would be where our solar system
is today 30 years ago. But he also he
would been well ahead of where the solar
system would have gotten. the soul would
need another 30 years to catch up, but
he also moved in space is your point,
not just in time, which is why he landed
in exactly the same spot on Earth. So,
so it's implicit in the storytelling.
So, you're absolutely right. Nothing you
can't do that in any way. That makes
sense. But wait, if our solar system
formed about 4.6 six billion years ago.
Isn't the premise part of his question
has a false premise which is I would not
end up because the entire solar system
would not have arrived in the location
solar system is there in that location.
No, no, no, no, no. We're in a rotating
galaxy. The Milky Way is rotating
and so that is all the stars in the
Milky Way are rotating around our
central black hole in the center. So if
you go back in time, if you go back in
time, you are no longer where you left
in space and you'll be dropped in the
middle of nowhere. So you you always
have to land in a space-time coordinate
in the future. We sort of do that, but
without the relativity part, if you're
going to visit Mars, you don't aim for
where Mars is. You aim for where Mars
will be when you get there. Then you
intersect Mars. So, if you're going back
2,000 years, it will be an empty Well,
there's going to be a Home Depot cuz
they existed in a Subway sandwich shop.
They they've been around and in the
mall. Yeah. Well, I mean, you know,
their franchising methodologies are
brilliant and they never get enough
credit. What what what you need is you
have to know where was the solar system
and the earth 2,000 years ago and not
only move back in time, but move back to
that location. But you cannot say that
the manga would not be the manga 2,000
years ago. Why wouldn't it be? Why would
not it be exactly what it is today? The
mangahila sounds like native a native
tribe. It is. That's who would be there
2000 years ago. But he's asking if I
create a time machine to go back to
mangahila, would I not end up in an
empty space? Yes, he would. Unless he
moved in time. That's I've been spend 10
minutes describing. I understand that.
So your answer, you answered his
question is yes. Yes. Unless he also
moves back in in space base as well.
Correct. Got it. Okay. And yes. So every
time machine is also a space machine.
Otherwise, it would be quite
lethal most of the time. What would
happen? No, you get dropped in the
middle of space cuz everything's moving.
You got to move with the action. Okay.
Marggo Lane. Mhm. If you were a life
form on a pristine planet watching
exploratory humans arrive for the first
time. Okay. So, you're observing humans
arrive for the first time. Yes. What is
the first question you'd ask them,
assuming you could understand each
other? And I have the answer to this. My
question would be really you needed
Sketcher shoes where you don't have to
bend over to put them on. That's where
you were. I bet you saw our TV
commercials that forget about that.
That's where we are as a species.
There's a lot of questions. The
Kardashians. What? Why? Really? What's
up with that? Right. How do people who
make Vaseline make any money? Think
about it. I've had the same tub of
Vaseline. My Vaseline was handed down to
me by my grandfather in a will. I don't
think you understand these conceptual
these Okay, here we go. So, I think
people used to use Vaseline before
lotion was big. I use it to grease the
brakes on my car and I still have a
giant bat of it. Tubs of Vaseline are
not as You know, you could go through
30,000 bags of garbage. You're not going
to find one empty container of All
right. So, if you were a life form on a
pristine planet watching exploratory
humans arrive, what is the first
question you would ask exploratory
humans? Okay. So, first let me say that
you should look online, maybe Pluto TV
or one of these things that has old TV
in it. M TV. M TV. Yeah. But and there's
several others as well. Go to an old
episode of the Twilight Zone called The
Invaders. That's all I will say. Well, I
watch a lot of Twilight Zone. I'm trying
to remember which one that is. So, uh,
in that episode, Agnes Morehead is this
lone ranch woman on a little house in
the prairie and the whole it's a one
woman show. She's the only character in
it and you just have to watch that. It's
called The Invaders. Oh, I do remember
this now. It's called The Invaders.
Don't say anything about it. Point is,
if I'm the other life form and I see
humans, my first question would be, just
given what I know about humans, have you
come to colonize this
planet? Cuz if that's your goal, that's
not happening. Okay? That we will not
let that happen. Okay? Because we've
seen what happens when you colonize
stuff before. Okay? Uh so that's the
first point.
Second, I That's interesting because
that that implies that the humans have
more technology than the alien in that
case. Yeah, because otherwise the aliens
would have visited us first. No, that's
you're just jumping the conclusions.
Wow, you're missing it. The question you
got to ask is really you conveyed
happiness by a little yellow circle with
a smiley face called an emoji. Like
there are so many bigger questions that
you could ask these people. Yeah. No,
the colonization is a good point because
nothing good ever really happened from
that. It's good and how about this? I
would say how did you survive
yourselves,
wouldn't enough, right, to then come
visit another planet. That's maybe what
you would do is you would be hiding
behind something and you' say, "How do
you feel about brothers?"
You know, you got to ask this black
question cuz you know cuz if they're not
with the thing. No, maybe you just say,
"What part of the are you from?" Oh, I
see. Yeah. What part of the the
demographic? Well, if you see them
goostepping down toward you, you
probably know if you're a Jew or a black
person. H you may want to let them just
pass. Or gypsies or Catholics or
Catholic or pretty much anybody. Yeah.
Yeah. Anyone non Aryan? Wouldn't you ask
them how you got there, though?
Seriously, what was your technology that
got you to us? I assume they would see
them land in something. No. No. But but
you'd want to learn from As a scientist,
I would compare notes. Yeah. And I would
do things. There's certain things that
should be common between us even if we
don't otherwise speak the same thing you
call tang like that kind of thing. So
but how would I know that though? That's
what I'm saying. I don't know the tang
or the Kardashians or slip-on sketchers.
I don't I don't unless he shows up
drinking Tang. Do you have to ruin every
joke and party with your stupid logic
with a Kardashian underarm and slip-on
sketchers? Then I could ask what's up
with that? Why can't you presume that
this this life form is smarter and has
the ability to see what we've been
doing? Here's what I would say. I want
to know I want to compare science notes
because science transcends time and
space in ways culture does not. But it
doesn't transcend Instagram. If you got
a big following, it's all that matters.
So, if I I'd verify that they can see in
the same wavelengths of light that I can
see, they could have completely
different senses. Well, I was going to
think say medically you'd probably want
to check each other out, too, right? Not
first. No, no, I don't mean poking their
bodies first. No, I didn't mean it in
that way. What? No, I'm not talking
about like anal probes or anything. I'm
just saying you thought of that. Don't
give the alien a bad name now. No, I'm
saying no. Why wouldn't if you want to
check out their mind and compare notes
in terms of science, wouldn't you physic
I would physically want to understand
their bodies versus visa v my vessel
their vessel and no ser. If I were a
biologist yes but I'm a physicist so no
I compare I I pull out a periodic table
of the elements. Mhm. Because that
organization is universal anyone who
knows the elements well enough as well
as we do would organize them that way.
Okay. But what if somebody that landed
was like a write a a creative writing
major and didn't care about science. If
they were the first emissary to another
planet, I'm pretty sure they would have
given them some science. Yeah, you're
just a science snob. Oh, only we're the
ones that everybody cares about. Hello,
Neil and Paul. This is Julian, Atlanta
native, writing from downtown Manhattan.
My question relates to stars and black
holes. I understand that our sun belongs
to the third generation of stars since
the Big Bang. Each star will eventually
die out in an explosion, some of which
form black holes, ending in eternal
singularity of their mass. Is it
possible that in the distant future
there will be more black holes than
stars since their lifespan is so much
longer than that of a star? Could the
passage of time create a population of
black holes that outlive and nearly
replace stars? Yes, next question. Okay,
that was a So, it turns out according to
Stephen Hawking, black holes actually
evaporate, but very very very slowly.
So, it's not burnout, it's evaporate.
It's a different It's a different Yeah,
they wouldn't burn out. Very very very
slowly. So, there's a point where all
the stars burn out and they they leave
their corpses. Some of those corpses are
black holes and there will come a time
when the black hole black holes
outnumber the living stars. They will
never outnumber the corpses. But isn't
the black hole then like it's like the
Alice in the Brady Bunch with a giant
vacuum cleaner. It's like sucking up all
of the stars that whether they evaporate
or not. I don't Alice in the Brady
Bunch. Yeah. The housekeeper. Is that
what she did? She was She would vacuum
the black holes.
Yeah. I'm sorry. I can't connect. I'm
sorry. But do you see where was Alice in
the grid of nine squares? She was in the
center. She was in the center. And if
you notice, her image kept uh repeating
back and forth because they didn't have
the technology. It was a pretty short
loop, right? And I got annoyed by it.
It's the same thing in the Mad Mad Mad
Mad World. Yeah. Um I just saw it last
night. Really? No, I'm serious. Okay, I
know every of that movie. Okay, so
there's the shot when at the end Spencer
Tracy is hanging on to the edge of uh he
slides down a a cable and goes through a
window and is sitting there and a great
Dne is licking his face. Yes. And that's
to repeat it. Keep it. And it's to
repeat it. And it was annoying me as
well.
I don't know how he got off on that, but
it's like and and he's doing this with
his eyes move the same way. Um, but is
it possible there already more black
holes in this than stars in the un our
universe? No, because we know who who
the progenitor is of a black hole and
it's a star that's made one out of
10,000 stars or one in a million star.
It's it's the most massive of stars is a
black hole. And in any volume of gas
that creates stars, it creates a lot of
low mass stars and fewer middle mass
stars and very few high mass stars. So
is this like a cosmic game of
hideand-seek? It's it's it's called the
initial mass function specifically. And
the initial mass function favors low
mass stars and high mass stars are just
rare rare. And I I don't know the latest
iteration on the initial mass function,
but it's at least as rare as one in a
thousand stars that what what are
massive enough to make a black hole at
the end of its life. So all I'm saying
is we have stars today that are born out
of these pockets of gas that are still
alive and thriving and would have only
had one or two black holes. So no, black
holes do not outnumber stars. By the
way, they will outnumber stars in a
trillion years. A few trillion years
when the lowest mass stars burn out
their fuel. It just sounds like stars
need like a support group for black
holes in the way they get dealt with.
No, they'll be fine. Black holes need no
support. The more black holes that
develop, we're all in jeopardy. No, I
just avoid them, that's all. Well, but
what you do emotionally in your
relationship to other people is not
what's relevant here. Yeah. We just need
a map of where all the black holes are
and then step around them.
Especially in your time machine. You
don't want your time machine to land in
a black hole because you didn't type in
the right space-time coordinate.
All right, let's move on. I think we
answered that thoroughly. Mhm. Cesar
Fredik from Bogota, Columbia. Love it.
Uh, speed of light C shapes our reality
and its fundamental properties. However,
it is intriguing to consider that
regardless of the unit used, C could
potentially be half, double, or any
other value. Could you suggest factors
other than the possibility of it being
an imposed constraint with it within a
simulation that might determine the
seemingly arbitrary value of this
universal constant as we understand it?
Wow. Here's a couple of speed of life
facts.
299,792 440 meters/s.
Yes. Yes. And do you know where the C
comes from? The Latin word speed. C
stands for constant. Yeah. But they
think that but there's a speculation
from a 1922 uh historian and scientist
that it's celitrius, the Latin for
speed. That's the first I've heard of
that. Well, that's why I'm here to open
your horizon. That's the first I've
heard of that. It's true. First I've
heard of that. That doesn't mean it's
not it's it's the most fundamental
constant in the universe, right? And the
word constant begins with a C. I
understand. But there's So I if I'm
wrong, I'd be intrigued to learn that
that's what was really going on. Okay.
It's not just an after the-act
suggestion. Okay. So the units are
arbitrary. Completely
arbitrary. You said you're How tall are
you? 5'9. Mhm. If I measured your height
in units of
59ness, then how tall are you? Those
unit those number of units of 59. If I
have a new unit that's 5'9 in I'm one
unit. You're one.
Okay. So your point being that doesn't
make you shorter or taller or anything,
but your point I'm saying that the units
are arbitrary, but the speed that we're
measuring is not. That is real and it's
fundamental. So the units don't matter.
And so
precisely do we understand the speed of
light. It's been measured so
precisely that it defines the length of
the
meter. That's how well we know the speed
of light. So if we get another point of
precision in the measurement of the
speed of light, it affects the
definition of the length of the meter.
So you can v you can vary that well only
in the points where it's still
uncertain. That's correct. But it's the
most amazing fundamental thing there is.
So there is no inherent there cannot be
any inherent uncertainty around the
speed of light is what you're saying.
Whatever uncertainty there is, it's
smaller than our capacity to measure it.
Then how do you know that there is
uncertainty if you can't measure it?
There is always uncertainty in every
measurement. How do we know that?
Always. How do we know that? Say, so how
tall are you again? 5'9. Are you 5'9 and
a quarter? Are you 5'8 and 3/4? Are you
5'8 and 7/8? Are you 5'9 and 1/8? You
5'9 and 1/16th? How come you gave it to
me in units of inches? You've
approximated, haven't you? Well, it
depends on what socks I'm wearing. You
have approximated it. So now I measure
it 5'9. Let's say you're exactly 5'9,
5'9 in. What does that even mean? the
thickness of the line. That's the nine
inches above the five
feet. Where are you within the thickness
of that line? Right. Are you 5'8 and
9900s of an inch? Are you 5'9 and 1/
1,000th of an inch? So, you're saying
exactitude is impossible. Correct.
Always everywhere. You can never measure
something exactly. Is that because of
the spa space-time continuum? No, it's
it's they're what's called measurement
errors, but they're not errors. They're
just measurement
uncertainties. So if you were once 5'8
and then you're later on 5'10", there
was a point in your life where you were
exactly 5'9",
but you could have never measured it to
be so. Right? All you could do is
measure it and bracket it according to
the uncertainties of your measuring
device. Right now I'm exactly 5'9. I
felt it with a little vibration. Little
vibration. So measurements are never
exact and they never can be and they
never will be. That's correct. You can
only know them with greater precision.
And you're how tall? At my tallest 6'2,
but you're shrinking. Yeah, I'm probably
shrinking. Is that your spine
collapsing? The the discs between your
spine and column fluid. Yeah. But you
can go into space and grow an inch or
so. But your space suit that you walk in
in the spacew walk is made taller than
the one you took off in. Why are we
growing? Because gravity gravity is no
longer squashing you. So the atoms are
getting stretched. Yeah, the molecules
stretches out, right? So I'm probably 61
and 3/4 now. I'd guess you are, as they
say in science, a tall drink of water.
All right, here we go. Doesn't that mean
you have great affection for me?
Knows no bounds.
It's
boundless. All right, Stephan Summers.
Uh this is Steph from H, Kansas. I was m
making my way through your old small
towns. I love it. Yeah. making my way
through your old queries and found one
where you talked about how if we could
pass through wormholes then gravity
would as well. But my understanding is
that gravity is the warping of space and
since a wormhole is making a hole
through the dimension of space would it
be warped on the other side?
Furthermore, if a wormhole is a literal
hole through a dimension, would we be
able to pass through it or even perceive
it as being uh as beings who live within
our threedimensional space?
Wow. You want me to That sounds like he
wants to write another the sequel to
say, do you want me to repeat anything?
No, no, no, no, no. He wants to write
the sequel to Interstellar. That's what
he's trying to do there. That's exactly.
So a wormhole uses, if we were to make
one, uses negative gravity. So we know
how to make a wormhole. We just don't
have the sub the stuff, the substance to
make it happen. Gravity collapses
spaceime on itself. Negative gravity, if
we could negative matter, would pry open
spaceime and creates a shortcut through.
So if we did that, we in principle
should be able to position it in such a
way that pops a hole through the fabric
of space and time and you step through
and you're instantly on the other side,
which by the way would have rendered
transporters completely obsolete in Star
Trek. Think about it. Just step through
a wormhole to get down to the planet.
Yeah, but there's no guarantee you're
going to get through without getting
lost. It's like Google Maps and you take
a right and then suddenly you're in a
corn field. I'll take that chance
because you don't pay attention to
Google Maps. I'll take that chance over
dematerializing my body into energy and
rematerializing it back into matter on
the other side. Why do you think that
that's not pos? Because your like your
nose ends up on your cheek. Anything.
Anything. My thoughts, my memories
stored in the synapses of my brain. I
don't know what's going to do that. No.
Maybe you could help. Let's say you
misplace your keys all the time.
Suddenly things are rearranged. you know
it all the time. That's a possibility.
But the brain is so complex, I'm
guessing that if you dematerialize it
and rematerialize it, chances are you'll
mess it up rather than improve it. Okay,
but if we're 3D and a wormhole is in
another dimension, how do we even know
it's there? It's like trying to change a
flat, not knowing where the car is. We
see the part of the wormhole that
intersects our dimensionality, but it's
only part of the wormhole. Well, so
here's an example I gave in another
show. Uh if we live in a flat sheet of
paper and then we're just standing
around and we see a dot just appear out
of nowhere. That dot becomes a small
circle and then a big circle. We're just
watching this. Okay. And then it shrinks
back again, becomes a dot and then
disappears. That'd be freaky. No, that's
called a Vegas act. It's a magi. It's a
magician. He works at the completely
freaky. Bellagio. What you just
witnessed was a three-dimensional sphere
passing through the two dimensions of
your world. And you described it as a
point and then circles that grew until
the circle was as wide as the diameter
of this sphere and then it went back and
then disappeared as it passed through to
the other side. So higher dimensional
things passing through our
dimensionality will manifest in some way
or another. So in answering this
question then the answer is uh if a
wormhole is a literal hole through a
dimension will we be able to pass
through it or even perceive it as being
as beings who live uh within our three
dimensions. Yeah, you can perceive you
would see the part of the wormhole that
intersected our dimensionality, but
nothing more than that. You won't
appreciate all of what else is going on
there. The fact that it moves into a
fourth dimension, you're not going to
catch that. But if you're passing
through a wormhole,
you're going to instantly get to the
other side instantly.
instantly. So what movies like showing
that you're going through this tunnel,
you know, it's like in the in the water
park. No, it's it's correctly done in
Rick and Morty,
which is exactly why I watch Rick and
Morty for my science knowledge. And this
dude, what's his name? Doctor Strange.
You know what I'm talking about. He's I
would if I had a superpower. I just
would want to be able to do that. It's a
very sophisticated, understated. It's
not this. It's not trying too hard. It's
like, yeah. Yeah. I mean, I prefer the
Rick and Morty wormholes because Rick
uses real science.
And what is it about that wormhole and
Rick and Morty that's accurate to you?
No, he just uses real science. Whereas
Doctor Strange uses magic?
If you can't perceive a wormhole, aren't
we in a way like walking through life
like this tourists at a loss in New York
City just looking up, taking pictures at
everything? Yes. And isn't there a way
that science can sort of make us not
feel that way?
Deal with it. You can't become a
scientist unless you are comfortable
being steeped in ignorance. Okay. So, we
have this constant debate. This is where
you just like try to get off on being
lazy and not trying to get stuff right.
No, I want to get stuff right. Oh, it's
better to not know anything. All right,
let's go have a bottle of wine. No, it's
learn to love the questions themselves.
Oh my god, I went through law school. I
don't need this. Aida answer a freaking
question, will you? You know, talking to
you about science is like looking at a
Picasso and then you're like, whoa, why
is the nose on his calf? I don't know.
And then some some historian, art
historian has a theory and they're
completely full of you know what. Okay.
You know what? You're fired from
science. I don't think he ever put his
nose on his calf. Yes, he did. All
right. Here we go. Oh, this is Captain
Carl with two K's, everybody. Ohoy.
Captain Carl from St. Thomas, US Virgin
Islands. I've often wondered as a
photographer and as physics enthusiasts,
is our colorful world a result of our
white star? White being made up of all
colors? What if our planet or any planet
was orbiting a blue or red star? Would
our world be different shades of red or
blue? By the way, I just want to thank
you, Neil, and shout out to your comedic
sidekicks. Uh, so would would our worlds
be different shades of red or blue if
we're orbiting a blue or red star with
our current eyes? Yes. But if we evolved
there, there's no reason why our
evolutionary path wouldn't have taken
divided up the the blue light into
different subcategories. Yeah. But if
you have pure red, then entire earth's
going to feel like a brothel. Yeah.
However, don't pretend you don't know
what that is. The width of our
sensitivity to light is much greater
than any single band of light. Say that
again. You lost me. All right. So, you
have Roy G.
Biv. Do you know Roy G. Biv? You don't
know Roy? Red, orange, yellow, green,
blue, indigo, violet. Roy G. Biv. Okay.
You You never knew that. No, I never.
No. You got to learn something every
day. Yeah. That's why I'm here.
Okay. Okay. Roy G. Biv. We see all those
colors. Now, when we make color
photos by Hubble or the James Webb
telescope in the infrared part of the
spectrum, you can't see colors in the
infrared part of the spectrum. So, you
know what we do? We take
RGB, slap it
onto different wavelengths in the
infrared part of the spectrum and create
a color photograph out of it. That's
what you would see if our site was
shifted to the infrared part of the
spectrum. It's what the world would look
like. So the infrared part of the
spectrum, is it neutral in color? You
can't detect it at all. But if we
evolved to see it, there's no reason to
think our brain wouldn't assign colors
to it. That's what's going on here.
We're assigning colors. In fact, Richard
Dawkins, the evolutionary biologist,
thinks that bats actually when they
echolocate, they see in color because
their mammal brain has that capacity. So
why not use it? So when you're using
echolocation,
tag it with a color. So if we orbited if
we orbited a blue star, we'd still have
would we still have clear skies? In
other words, every if if our eyes
evolved in this star and then transport
us to a blue star, right? Then we would
not see colors in the blue because we
can only see colors in the visible part
of the spectrum. There'll be blue and
ultra violet ultraviolet. We only see
colors in the visible part of the
spectrum. However, you can fake it
authentically fake it. That's called the
perfect Instagram filter, right?
So going in that direction, we have
violet. Take three bands in violet
light that are adjacent to one another.
Then once you do that, you you assign
RGB. Bring them back together and you
can reconstruct what you would see if
our sensitivity were shifted to the
violet and ultraviolet part of the
spectrum to the blue part of the
spectrum. So we should think of it as
shifted color is what it is. But we only
limited in how much we can our abilities
to shift. We're very limited. Well, you
are. I'm not.
So, we see red through violet. That's
it. And that's if I want to see color
anywhere else, you take out the RGB,
slap it down on three different bands,
and out comes a color picture of X-rays,
of infrared, of ultraviolet, of of gamma
rays, all the above. And so a red
planet, a blue planet, a red star, a
blue star. Is there any star with a
color that you have the ability to see
without sort of slapping RB that doing
that technique?
RBG Roy. Say it. Roy G. Bib. Roy G. Bib.
So no, just the way we evolved, we can't
we can't see into it. So by the way,
this band of visible light is very
narrow compared with ultraviolet or
infrared. very narrow. So, we're
practically blind no matter
what. And insects see into the deep
ultraviolet insects and they're
perfectly happy. When I stare into a
very bright light and then I can't see
for a second what's happening. That's a
different thing. You you burn you you
over stimulate the retinal cells and
they have they have to recover. Yeah.
Which takes several seconds. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah.
Which is always fun by the way after
you've been drinking. Uh, all right.
Another question. Hello, I'm John May
Huoi. Uh, May Hoy Mayoy. There you go.
Uh, and from Parkland, Florida. I know
that the cosmic microwave background is
like a snapshot of the early universe
and its temperature has been dropping
ever since. So, I'm wondering, could
this temperature be used as a kind of
universal clock? If we could measure it
super accurately, would that tell us
exactly how old the universe is right
now? Would that age be the same no
matter what where you are in the
universe?
Yes. Because every part of the universe
was in the same place at the same time
13.8 billion years
ago. So the oldest things in the
universe in every direction you look are
exactly the same age traceable to that
period of time. So yeah, everything now
at this moment we see in the past. So we
can ask what is that thing doing now?
Well, it's even farther away from us.
It's and we can think of the diameter of
the universe as how big the universe is
today even though we can't see
that. And that diameter is coming in at
96 something like that billion miles
full diameter. So if you could see those
galaxies at a horizon today, that's what
they look like. But that would need an
infinite speed of light. And that's I'm
not we're not giving you that. Why? Not
possible. I'm not giving it to you.
Observational limits on the universe.
And temperature is the only way to
measure this is to have a universal
clock is temperature also works. Yeah.
So as the universe grows, the
temperature cools. So it's a it's a
onetoone correspondence. So you can just
back extrapolate to the early universe.
So there's a murder scene. Um and they
do a forensic. Why are you so morbid?
Well, because that's how I my brain
thinks. Uh and they and they and so they
can figure out based on the temperature
of the body when the body died. Yes. So
that's what's happening there. I hadn't
thought about it that way, but that's
that works. Yeah. You got the crusty old
cop and then you got the you got the the
sexy sidekick. That's right. Male or
female? I haven't thought about that.
Well, that's why I'm here. What's the
next question? Okay, this is uh Joe Lero
Liperella from uh Pennsylvania.
Relativity tells us that as an object
approaches the speed of light or is in a
deep gravitational well, time slows to a
stop relative to other observers. My
question is, what is on the other side
of that extreme? If an object is
motionless and if there is zero
gravitational effect on it, how would
time work for that object? There's zero
gravity
then time goes fast for it. Well, an
object is motionless and if there's zero
gravitational effect on it, right? So,
how would time work? When you are in the
presence of gravity, you age slower. So,
this is like the ultimate anti-aging
hack. This is we should bottle this. We
should be on QVC right now, not on this
dog and pony show you call Star Talk. We
could be making some big bucks.
start our own our own QVC channel. Yeah.
Dr. Tyson's QVC hack. So, what are they
asking then? Is is they're asking my
question is what is on the other side of
that extreme? In other words, relativity
tells us that as an object approaches
the speed of light or is in a deep
gravitational well, time slows to a
stop. Okay. So, now watch. So, some
years ago, people realized you couldn't
accelerate past the speed of light. But
does that preclude a particle existing
faster than light? If you can't
accelerate past it, can you exist on the
other side?
And serious thought was given to that to
the point where there's some movies
based on it. And we there's a
hypothetical particle that has these
properties. It's called a tachion.
Takios from the Greek meaning fast.
Tachios. Tachons. And Tachons would live
backwards in time. How is that possible?
Because if time slows down as you reach
the speed of light on the other side of
speed of light, if you continue the
equations jumping that gap, time would
go backwards for it. Heck yeah. For it
for Yes. Yeah. For it. Do we know they
exist? No, we never never found them. So
then how could you have a theory about
something that should because it's
allowed to exist by Einstein's
equations. And if something is allowed,
that's good enough reason to go out and
look for it. if other parts. But at one
point do you stop looking in all
seriousness and go this doesn't if you
can't find it. Welcome to the frontier
of science. No, it's like I can't find
my phone in my house. I'm not going to
keep looking. Go, I know it's there. We
don't know. That's right. It's a
mystery. But if you give up and someone
else finds it a month later. So when
time meets an object with no gravity and
no movement, it's like my lazy good for
nothing 15-year-old son who won't mow
the lawn, right? He just lays just sits
there. So the answer to the question is
yes on some is it or is it that clear?
The answer is wait wasn't there two
parts of that. Yeah. There's the uh an
object approaches the speed of light is
in a deep gravitational well time slows
to a stop. Yes. In a deep gravitational
well. Yes. Time slows. Okay. Correct.
And what is on the other side of that
extreme and that would be techons.
Techons which we are know there but we
haven't found them. Okay. Correct. Got
it. The techons work in the equations.
So as if as a result and so we're saying
well write all these other ways maybe
this prediction of the equation should
work as well. Got it. So if you are
motionless in space as far as you're
concerned you'll still have your own
timeline and all that matters is what
other people will say of you as they fly
by you. So everyone will have a
different time reference for you. All
you care about is your own clock and
your own wristwatch and your own clock
on the wall. And that's all you care
about. Now that's if you're not moving.
But if there's no
gravity,
then time speeds up for you.
So if an object is motionless and
there's zero gravitational effect, how
would time work for that object? This is
where we're talking it's so this is
where we were joking about gravit
anti-aging hack. Right. So in other
words, you there'd be no aging because
time there's right there's zero
gravitational effect. Yeah. But you and
everyone else around you in your same
reference frame will age at exactly the
same rate. It could be 1 second for
every 10 seconds outside of your club.
Right. Right. But it won't matter to any
of you. You can't hack that system and
say, "I want to go back to when I was
younger." Okay. But if you're so smart,
tell me who in that group is going to
get plastic surgery first to avoid the
aging process. Yeah. Plus, if you're in
space with zero G, some surgeries aren't
necessary.
No. Well, yeah, it's right because you
got nothing pulling on you. Have nothing
pulling on you. Stuff floats. That's
what we should invent. We should invent
people zero G facial surgery. I like
this question. It's very simple,
straightforward, but interesting. Dennis
Albertie, please explain buoyancy.
Buoyancy. I love it. All right. So, it's
all about density. In the end of the
day, it's about density and gravity, you
know. So if you are and gravity, yes, if
you are less dense than the medium
you're immersed in, you will float to
the top. It's that simple. It's not more
complicated than that. Define density.
It's how much matter you can cram into a
certain volume. So the big advance, it's
amazing this didn't happen until the
19th century, was there was some early
variance in the 18th century, but it
really took off in the 19th century. the
fact that you could float metal. If you
make a boat out of
metal, then it's almost impervious to
war, not
icebergs and a billion dollar gross at
the movies. It's exactly what Titanic
did, but probably up to two or three
billion now. Look, to summarize it, a
submarine is a boat in denial. Well, so
here's what happens. So, you should
react to that. That was a good line.
So a submarine is a boat in denial. So
if you have a hole that's made of metal,
any bits of that metal would just sink
to the bottom. However, if it's in the
hole shape, it's pressing down on the
water. The water is rising up and you've
created an environment that on average
is less dense than water and so
therefore it floats because of the
V-shaped because most of the volume is
air. So you get to add the air plus the
metal as part of the contents that's
within within the volume. And when you
do that, you systematically reduce the
density of the material. If you go back
a thousand years ago, people made boats
out of wood sensibly because wood
floats. So you make anything out of
wood, it would float. That made complete
sense. But you're susceptible to attack.
But if I took a metal plank, a a a 4 by
12 piece of metal flat and threw it in
the water, would that sink? Yes. Because
you don't have that Vshape. You don't
have the the rel the relation to air
because it's all about volume. It's all
about volume. So if you if you carve it
into a
volume, then it's the mass of the shell
divided by the full volume of the whole
thing. And that gets very low, it' be
lower than water. It'll just float. It's
the same principle why an iceberg can
float because you've icebergs are just
simply less dense than water, right?
Simply less dense. So you don't need
that Vshape for that to for an iceberg.
No. No. No. I mean, you don't you don't
ever need a Vshape except that I mean,
like styrofoam will make a boat, but it
doesn't need a Vshape, right? These
shapes are important if you know the
material you're working with is heavier
than than the stuff itself. Right.
Because you're display you want to
displace. Correct. Right. It's all about
displacement. Correct. So the bottom
line is um icebergs float. You got a
V-shaped hull, steel float. Yes.
Styrofoam cooler. Best scenario. You can
sit on it and tap in and get a couple of
beers at the same time. At the same
time. Okay. That's why I'm here. Paul
got time for one more. One more. Got it.
Okay. This is a this is actually a very
interesting one. Terry Burke from St.
Louis. My question is simple. In nuclear
fision and fusion, a small amount of
matter is lost and converted to a large
amount of energy. Is the gravity
associated with the lost mass also lost?
No. Because great question by the way.
Gravity emanates not only from mass but
also from energy because mass and energy
are the same thing. Different sides of
the same coin. So you're not just losing
mass and not
energy. You're losing some combination
of the two and they go hand in hand. So
the answer is no. Is the gravity
associated with the loss? No. And that
can never vary. I mean this is this is a
con this is a constant. This can never
this the idea that that gravity
associated with the lost mass is also
lost. Oh matter and energy are one in
the same thing. Mhm. So they each
distort the fabric of space and time.
And that's all you need to know about
it. Okay. Mhm. We will commonly think of
matter distorting space, but if there's
energy there, it will distort space as
well. And equals MC reminds us that
they're two sides of the same coin. The
the more the amount of energy is created
is is the same amount of gravity lost.
In other words, like the mass lost is
gravity associated with the lost mass is
also lost. Do you lose more gravity the
more energy that's created if it leaves
the system? Yes, you're losing you're
losing gravity anytime any matter or
energy leaves the system. No, I know.
But doesn't it sort of all change over
time and you know depending on the
amount of energy that's created the more
energy that created the more gravity is
lost. No. Yes. But the it's a lot of
energy and a very small amount of mass.
So I wouldn't lose sleep over it. Well,
listen. It's up to me what I lose sleep
over. Just because you walk through life
not caring about science the way I do, I
can't. It is weird though that humans
for onethird of a rotation of the earth
are semicomaos.
One last question. I'll do it. Quick
one. Okay. Okay. Uh Mc Mark, I used to
have a bell here. I don't know what I
did with it. Mark from Portland, Oregon.
Is our solar system comprised of
remnants from a single supernova or a
collection of many? If many, I'm curious
how are or any galaxy diffuses multiple
supernovas together. Okay, so first a
supernova is a huge explosion and its
guts are just scattered everywhere. Just
start with that. Then the galaxy rotates
as we say
differentially. So the inner parts
complete a circle faster than the outer
parts. This shears the GL the gas clouds
that have all been contaminated by the
detritus of a supernova explosion and
you get a few rotations of the galaxy.
This stuff becomes very well mixed and
the next generation of stars is going to
have all the ingredients from that last
round of supernova explosions. So it's
like fertile ground for the next round.
Yeah. Got it. All the way through. All
right. I think that's all good
questions. Wow. Yeah. Excellent. Patreon
members, but this is for our general
audience. General audience. We, by the
way, if you join Patreon, we do special
custom Q&A sessions just for you. And
that's on the other side of the Patreon
payw wall. Yeah. And it's worth paying
because we dress up as Elizabeth and
characters when we do that CQ. So, but
that's what you're missing because
you're too cheap to join. All right.
Good for you. Oh, and we give out gold
bars to everybody. That's when I about
that sword. And that sword, you say, "I
got to use that sword, right?" And every
Patreon member gets a puppy
and a pony. And a pony.
All right, we're done here. Yet another
installment of Cosmic Queries with Paul
Mccurio. But we'll find you your show on
the road. Yeah, paul mccurio.com. Did
someone say take that show on the road?
And then that's what you did. I did it
in New York and then the the authorities
called and said, "Take it on the road."
Uh, and uh, uh, Inside Out with Paul
Mccuri on my podcast. Is there a movie
called Inside Out? There is, but thanks
for bringing that up. U, this is how you
help me get people come. Oh, yeah. You
just copied something, so don't go see
it. Uh, yeah. Inside Out Interactions
with the audience. You're very good on
your feet in that way. Yeah. My my show,
Permission to Speak, is about sort of
engaging the audience in their stories.
It was born out of crowd work with an
audience. Love crowd crowd audiences.
But it's uh but people have f and your
podcast uh Inside Out with Paul Mccuri
which I've been on. Yes, you've been on
and uh Paul McCartney and Stephen Coar
and a lot of fun people. So, well, I
wasn't enough to you
were the only reason Paul McCartney did
it is because he found out you did it.
Oh, see that's that's what I expect.
And uh and he knows a lot more about the
theory of relativity than you do. Weird.
I don't know cuz I just thought he
played music. No. Yeah. So hopefully
people can check all that stuff out.
report. You got it. All right. This has
been Star Talk Cosmic Queries Grabag
Edition. Neil Degrass Tyson here
thanking Paul Mccurio. As always, I bid
you to keep looking up.
[Music]